[ADD] accounting: data inalterability check report (#2703)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/accounting/reporting/overview/data_inalterability.rst

================================
Data inalterability check report
================================

> Tax authorities in some countries require companies to prove their posted accounting entries are
> inalterable, meaning that once an entry has been posted, it can no longer be changed.
> 
> To do so, Odoo can use the SHA-256 algorithm to create a unique fingerprint for each posted entry.
> This fingerprint is called a hash. The hash is generated by taking an entry's essential data (the
> values of the `date`, `journal_id`, `company_id`, `debit`, `credit`, `account_id`, and `partner_id`
> fields), concatenating it, inputting it to the SHA-256 hash function, which then outputs a fixed
> size (256-bit) string of characters. The hash function is deterministic, meaning that the same input
> always creates the same output: any minor modification to the original data will completely change
> the resulting hash. Consequently, the SHA-256 algorithm is often used, among others, for data
> integrity verification purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tax authorities in some countries require companies to prove their posted accounting entries are
inalterable, meaning that once an entry has been posted, it can no longer be changed.

To do so, Odoo can use the SHA-256 algorithm to create a unique fingerprint for each posted entry.
This fingerprint is called a hash. The hash is generated by taking an entry's essential data (the
values of the `date`, `journal_id`, `company_id`, `debit`, `credit`, `account_id`, and `partner_id`
fields), concatenating it, and inputting it to the SHA-256 hash function, which then outputs a fixed
size (256-bit) string of characters. The hash function is deterministic, meaning that the same input
always creates the same output: any minor modification to the original data will completely change
the resulting hash. Consequently, the SHA-256 algorithm is often used, among others, for data
integrity verification purposes.
```

> In addition, the previous entry's hash is always added to the next entry to form a hash chain.
> This is used to ensure a new entry is not added afterward in between two posted entries, as doing so
> would break the hash chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, the previous entry's hash is always added to the next entry to form a hash chain.
This is used to ensure a new entry is not added afterward between two posted entries, as doing so
would break the hash chain.
```

.. note::
   Hashes generated by the SHA-256 algorithm are theoretically not unique, as there is a finite
   number of possible values. However, this number is exceptionally high: 2²⁵⁶, which is a lot
   bigger than the number of atoms in the known universe. This is why hashes are considered unique
   in practice.

Lock posted entries with hash
=============================

To start using the hashing function, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration > Journals`.
Open the journal for which you want to activate the feature, go to the :guilabel:`Advanced Settings`
tab, and enable :guilabel:`Lock Posted Entries with Hash`.

.. warning::
   As soon as you post an entry on a locked journal, you will no longer be able to disable the
   feature anymore. Furthermore, you will not be able to edit any posted entry anymore.

Report download

> ===============

Author: Alzheimer 😭

> ===============

Reviewer 2: ![MaNlSmonetGIF](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/46810843/189686934-b8ae7f02-a07d-4c8f-96cb-aff122ce1421.gif)

> To download the data inalterability check report, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration
> --> Settings --> Reporting: Download the Data Inalterability Check Report`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To download the data inalterability check report, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration
--> Settings --> Reporting`, and click on :guilabel:`Download the Data Inalterability Check Report`.
```

> The report's first section overviews of all your journals and their configuration. Under the
> inalterability check column, you can see whether or not a journal's posted entries are locked with
> hash (V) or not (X). The coverage columns let you know when a journal's posted entries have started
> being hashed.

Reviewer 2: - first sentence seems a combination of two phrasings
- *a_ hash
- not 100% sure, but  think it's "when entries **started** being hashed"

```suggestion
The report's first section is an overview of all your journals and their configuration. Under the
inalterability check column, you can see whether or not a journal's posted entries are locked with a
hash (V) or not (X). The coverage columns let you know when a journal's posted entries started being
hashed.
```

> The report's first section gives an overview of all your journals and their configuration.
> Under the inalterability check column, you can see whether or not a journal's posted entries are
> locked with hash (V) or not (X). The coverage columns let you know when a journal's posted entries
> have started being hashed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The report's first section overviews all your journals and their configuration.
Under the inalterability check column, you can see whether or not a journal's posted entries are
locked with hash (V) or not (X). The coverage columns let you know when a journal's posted entries
have started being hashed.
```

.. image:: data_inalterability/journal-overview.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Configuration report for two journals

The second section gives you the result of the data consistency check for each hashed journal. You

> can view the first hashed entry and its corresponding hash, and the last hashed entry and its

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
can view the first hashed entry and its corresponding hash and the last hashed entry and its
```

================================
Data inalterability check report
================================

Tax authorities in some countries require companies to **prove their posted accounting entries are
inalterable**, meaning that once an entry has been posted, it can no longer be changed.

To do so, Odoo can use the **SHA-256 algorithm** to create a unique fingerprint for each posted
entry. This fingerprint is called a hash. The hash is generated by taking an entry's essential data
(the values of the `date`, `journal_id`, `company_id`, `debit`, `credit`, `account_id`, and
`partner_id` fields), concatenating it, and inputting it to the SHA-256 hash function, which then
outputs a fixed size (256-bit) string of characters. The hash function is deterministic (:dfn:`the
same input always creates the same output`): any minor modification to the original data would

> completely change the resulting hash). Consequently, the SHA-256 algorithm is often used, among

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
completely change the resulting hash. Consequently, the SHA-256 algorithm is often used, among
```

others, for data integrity verification purposes.

In addition, the previous entry's hash is always added to the next entry to form a **hash chain**.
This is used to ensure a new entry is not added afterward between two posted entries, as doing so
would break the hash chain.

.. note::
   Hashes generated by the SHA-256 algorithm are theoretically not unique, as there is a finite
   number of possible values. However, this number is exceptionally high: 2²⁵⁶, which is a lot
   bigger than the number of atoms in the known universe. This is why hashes are considered unique
   in practice.

.. _data-inalterability/lock:

Lock posted entries with hash
=============================

To start using the hashing function, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration > Journals`.
Open the journal for which you want to activate the feature, go to the :guilabel:`Advanced Settings`
tab, and enable :guilabel:`Lock Posted Entries with Hash`.

.. warning::

>    Once you post an entry on a locked journal, you can no longer be able to disable the

Reviewer 3: you can no longer be able to disable ? :dizzy: 
```suggestion
   Once you post an entry on a locked journal, you cannot disable the
```

Reviewer 2: Indeed, see my suggestion above 
https://github.com/odoo/documentation/pull/2703#discussion_r968426706

   feature anymore, nor edit any posted entry.

.. _data-inalterability/report:

Report download
===============

To download the data inalterability check report, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration
--> Settings --> Reporting` and click on :guilabel:`Download the Data Inalterability Check Report`.

The report's first section is an overview of all your journals and their configuration. Under the
inalterability check column, you can see whether or not a journal's posted entries are locked with
a hash (V) or not (X). The coverage columns let you know when a journal's posted entries started

> being hashed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
being protected.
```
I think 'hash' is a bit a technical word, it's good to use it when really explaining the feature, but for other places, 'unalterable', 'protected', or synonyms might be clearer for the user :thinking:
